>> Kadi Kraman: So far,
we've created our shopping list, but
the problem is that every
time we refresh our app, so
if you shake your phone and refresh,
or you close [INAUDIBLE], you go and
reopens, or in my case, if I just reload
this, the shopping list is empty.
And that's because we are rendering our
shopping list in memory In our new state.
So what we really want to do is you
want to persist this shopping list when
we save it, so that when we close our app
and reopen it, it would still be there.
On the web you might use local storage for
this and
the native equivalent of
this Is asyncstorage.
It's a key-value store, so
it's an unsecured key-value store for
native mobile applications.
And you can use it pretty much
the same as local storage.
The only difference is, well,
the clue's in the name.
It's asynchronous, so all the calls
to async storage are asynchronous.
So let's install Async Storage.
>> Kadi Kraman: So we'll do NPX expo
install, React Native Async Storage,
Async Storage.
And actually,
here's a fun thing about Async Storage.
So this actually used to be part
of the core React Native package,
but it's an example of how the React
team at Meta really wanted
to draw the line between what
the community should handle and
what the core React Native
package should handle.
So this is actually a great example
of something that used to be part of
React Native Core, and
it was explicitly moved out and
turned into a community library so
it could be Built, developed and
managed independently of
the core React native package.
So let's write a,
let's create a UILs folder so
new folder UILs and.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's call a function called storage.ts.
So we'll put our async storage
kind of utility functions now.
And the two things you wanna do with
async storage Because you wanna get,
and you wanna set.
So let's do export async
function getFromStorage.
>> Kadi Kraman: And for this,
we need a key which is a string.
So this will be the key for
your asing storage on your device, and
it'll be scoped to
the application you're using.
So one application can't access things
from another application's asing storage,
unless you, well jade break your device
and then all things kind of things can.
Can happen, but generally they're scoped
to the application that you're using.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
what I want to do is we'll do const data.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
this will be an asynchronous function, so
await asyncstorage.
So this is the first The default
export from the acing storage package,
and we'll do the item with the key.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
everything in Async storage is a string So
we're going to save a JavaScript object,
and so adjacent object,
so we will pass it so.
>> Kadi Kraman: [COUGH] Actually,
the best way to do this is to use
the The way to do this is, usually,
if you're parsing anything or
you want to wrap it into a try-catch, so
let's do a try and a catch over this,
and then default to returning null.
Whenever you JSON parse everything, make
sure you do a try-catch in React Native,
because otherwise,
things might crash if the thing that
you're passing is not a valid JSON object.
So we want to return if there is data.
So it's not the initial time
we'll do JSON pass data and
otherwise let's return a null.
And I probably should have done
a save from storage first but
let's do an export async
function save to storage and
here we need to do a key again so
this is the key the string address so,
Where we're saving to and then our data.
Let's just accept any
old object in this case.
>> Kadi Kraman: And let's also do a try
catch around this just in case and
we'll just do an await.
>> Kadi Kraman: AsyncStorage.set Item and
we'll have two properties so
the first one will be the key so the
address of where you're saving it to and
the second one will be what you're
saving so this has to be a string so
we call it jsonStringify
On this data object.
So the reason I say that probably should
have done this, save the storage first,
is actually the way that you get your
item depends on what you're saving.
So in this case, I'm saying that I'm
always going to be saving an object.
And that's why I'm calling
json.stringify on it.
And then therefore, when we get the item,
we can call jsonparse on it.
But you could set just
like any value value here.
So it could just be a string.
So as long as it's a string,
it can be anything.
And one thing to note is because
you can only store strings here,
then everything that you store in
these storage has to be serializable.
So you can't have date objects,
for example.
>> Kadi Kraman: All right,
so now it's time to use it.
So, let's create our storage
key in our in our index screen.
So let's do const storageKey.
>> Kadi Kraman: And this can be anything
I'm just gonna call it shopping list, but
this will be unique.
So whenever you go to
asyncstorage on this app,
using this key- You will get that data.
And we're going to use a useEffect.
So useEffect is a React hook and
using it like this, so
we're going to pass in just an arrow
function and an empty array.
So two arguments,
an arrow function and empty array.
And then what this does is that
it lets you execute a thing
once when the component is loaded.
So in this case, it's very common to
use this to fetch some initial data.
One thing about use effects is
that they are synchronous, so
you can't do anything
Asynchronous in them.
So, as you might have recalled,
our async storage is asynchronous.
So how do you execute an asynchronous
function from a synchronous useeffect.
And the really common workaround for
this is that you define your asynchronous
function inside your useEffect.
So I'm going to do const fetch initial and
this will be an asynchronous
arrow function and
it's going to do const data so
this will be await
get From storage to
the sketch from storage is
the utility function which is created, and
we'll pass in the storage key
>> Kadi Kraman: So
if data we will setShoppingList data,
so yeah so
this will be an array of items so
I know I'll call this an object but
an array is an object in JavaScript,
but okay so
the way we call it Is we
literally just call fetch
initial here immediately underneath it.
So this is, we could have defined this
like, like somewhere else, but this is
like the the way that you would execute an
asynchronous function inside a useEffect.
So we're not waiting, so
we can't do a wait, so this will.
This will tell us that this is
asynchronous and if we try to make
this asynchronous, it would fail, so
we're just fire and forgetting it.
And the last thing we need to do is
we need to sync all of our updates.
So whenever we are creating a new item or
we are toggling the completion of an item,
we also update our a sync storage.
So here, in HandleSubmit,
where we're setting
our shopping list,
let's also do Save to Storage and
we have our key and our shopping list.
>> Kadi Kraman: I'm going to
call this our storage key.
And when we are deleting it
we are doing the same, so
we are doing save to storage,
storage key and
shopping list and save for
an alter we complete.
So save to storage key storage key,
and the new shopping list.
Lovely, so now when I do coffee,
tea, milk,
sugar, I'm just going to mark
one of them as complete,
so now, hopefully, if I reload my app,
all of them are still here,
and my status persisted.
So that's how you use
asyncstorage in React Native.
To persist data across app launches,